---
title: MarkApp
author: PipisCrew
date: 2016-09-10
categories: [js]
toc: true
---

Building apps by authoring HTML

http://markapp.io/

AMP ampproject and contributors
Fast and responsive custom elements as part of a larger spec to build content pages easily.

ampproject/amphtml    
Awesomplete leaverou and contributors
Simple, flexible autocomplete widget

leaverou/awesomplete    

Bootstrap Twitter and contributors
Bootstrap is the most popular HTML, CSS, and JS framework for developing responsive, mobile first projects on the web.

twbs/bootstrap    

Dropzone enyo and contributors
An open source library that provides drag’n’drop file uploads with image previews.

enyo/dropzone    

eqcss Tommy Hodgins & Maxime Euziere and contributors
A CSS extension for element queries, scoped styles, & special selectors like $parent and $this

eqcss/eqcss    

Flickity metafizzy and contributors
Touch, responsive, flickable carousels

metafizzy/flickity    
Fotorama artpolikarpov and contributors
A simple, stunning, powerful jQuery gallery.

artpolikarpov/fotorama    

Gridnav Christian Heilmann and contributors
Navigating a list in a 2D manner instead of just forward and backward.

codepo8/gridnav    

Intercooler LeadDyno and contributors
AJAX With Attributes: There is no need to be complex

LeadDyno/intercooler-js    

Packery metafizzy and contributors
Gapless, draggable grid layouts

metafizzy/packery    
Parsley guillaumepotier and contributors
Validate your forms, frontend, without writing a single line of javascript

guillaumepotier/Parsley.js    

PrismJS leaverou and contributors
Beautiful, standards-compliant syntax highlighter with support for over 100 languages.

prismjs/prism    
QuestionMark.js impressivewebs and contributors
A keyboard shortcuts modal window plugin for your app.

impressivewebs/QuestionMark.js    

Shower pepelsbey and contributors
HTML presentation engine

shower/shower    
Sorttable stuartlangridge and contributors
Make your tables sortable

stuartlangridge/sorttable    

Stretchy leaverou and contributors
Form element autosizing, the way it should be.

leaverou/stretchy    

tabbed-panels Daniel-Hug and contributors
A declarative tabbed panels JS module

Daniel-Hug/tabbed-panels    
togglr stefanoio and contributors
Add/remove/toggle classes on specific targets on user input (click).

stefanoio/togglr    
Vista esha and contributors
Declarative, CSS-driven, location-based control of element visibility (aka HTML routing)

esha/vista    
Help expand this list!

origin - http://www.pipiscrew.com/?p=6070 markapp