---
title: He work in an Amazon warehouse in West Sacramento
author: PipisCrew
date: 2019-07-21
categories: [news]
toc: true
---

Amazon employs approximately 650,000 people worldwide. That number is higher than the populations of 50 of the world’s 233 countries. It’s entirely possible that at some point a citizen of Luxembourg (population 602,000) has been sprayed by bear repellant, or that workers somewhere in Iceland (360,000) have been required to work around a fallen co-worker. 

Amazon employees who call in sick three times in their first three months will be terminated.

The company wants every employee trained on every job in the warehouse. It also wants every employee to be able to interact with a wide variety of other workers.

Every morning, before our shift begins, my fellow Amazonians and I gather at the front of the warehouse where all of our photos and names have been printed on rectangles that resemble refrigerator magnets. These magnetic photos are stuck to a large white board with a diagram that represents every station in the warehouse. One-by-one each person’s magnet is assigned a place on the map. Every day brings a new arrangement.

I learned that the project is in fact just another quiet and orderly place filled with ordinary members of the working poor. Most of the occupants have jobs, and children, and they pay taxes like everyone else. But almost all of these second and third jobs pay less than Amazon’s minimum wage of $15 an hour.

We are required to wear high-visibility vests and protective gloves at all times. Traffic managers ensure that the vehicles continuously coming and going do not endanger employees. The conveyor belts are all equipped with emergency shut-off cords, which any employee can pull at any time should the need arise. Any Amazon employee who violates a safety regulation is likely to find himself without a job in a hurry. We have a fully stocked first-aid center. Our managers are obsessed with keeping us properly hydrated. Free bottled waters and electrolyte-enriched popsicles are located in ice chests all over the facility.

https://quillette.com/2019/07/19/the-problem-with-tourist-journalism/

origin - https://www.pipiscrew.com/?p=15125 he-work-in-an-amazon-warehouse-in-west-sacramento