---
title: The Top 13 Anti-Cancer Foods
author: PipisCrew
date: 2020-10-25
categories: [health]
toc: true
---

**BROCCOLI**
1. Broccoli reduces the risk of cancer.
2. Broccoli prevents cardiovascular disease.
3. Broccoli helps detoxify the body.
4. Broccoli prevents and controls diabetes.
5. Broccoli strengthens bones and teeth.
6. Broccoli promotes weight loss.
7. Broccoli fights respiratory problems.
8. Broccoli prevents anemia.
9. Broccoli improves skin and eye health.
10. Broccoli prevents aging.

**GARLIC**
1. Garlic strengthens the nervous system.
2. Garlic strengthens immunity.
3. Garlic prevents aging.
4. Garlic fights rheumatism.
5. Garlic regulates cholesterol levels.
6. Garlic improves blood circulation.
7. Garlic fights allergies.
8. Garlic regulates the intestinal flora.
9. Garlic reduces the risk of cancer.
10. Garlic relieves urinary tract infections.

**CURCUMA**
1. Turmeric protects the cardiovascular system. 
2. Turmeric lowers bad cholesterol.
3. Turmeric calms digestive disorders.
4. Turmeric reduces the risk of cancer.
5. Turmeric prevents Alzheimer’s disease.
6. Turmeric promotes weight loss.
7. Turmeric relieves inflammation.
8. Turmeric treats skin problems.
9. Turmeric calms painful periods.
10. Turmeric boosts immunity.

**GREEN TEA**
1. Green tea prevents cardiovascular disease.
2. Green tea reduces the risk of cancer. 
3. Green tea lowers cholesterol levels.
4. Green tea fights type 2 diabetes.
5. Green tea promotes brain health. 
6. Green tea strengthens the immune system.
7. Green tea promotes weight loss.
8. Green tea prevents the aging of cells. 
9. Green tea fights fatigue.
10. Green tea prevents Alzheimer’s disease.

**POMEGRANATE**
1. The pomegranate protects the heart and the vessels.
2. Pomegranate prevents Alzheimer’s disease.
3. Pomegranate strengthens bones and muscles.
4. Pomegranate decreases the risk of cancer.
5. Pomegranate aids digestion and transit.
6. Pomegranate helps lower cholesterol.
7. Pomegranate stimulates sexual appetite.
8. Pomegranate boosts athletic performance.
9. The pomegranate keeps the skin smooth and youthful.
10. Pomegranate prevents cellular aging.

**TOMATOES**
1. Tomato helps fight cancer.
2. The tomato prevents heart disease.
3. The tomato helps keep you young.
4. The tomato aids digestion and transit.
5. The tomato gives a healthy glow.
6. The tomato keeps the skin smooth and young.
7. The tomato helps to keep the figure.
8. Tomato treats arterial hypertension.
9. The tomato fights against diabetes.
10. Tomato strengthens bones and eyesight.

**LEMON**
1. Lemon lowers blood pressure.
2. Lemon fights cancer. 
3. Lemon lowers cholesterol levels.
4. Lemon promotes weight loss. 
5. Lemon prevents infections.
6. Lemon maintains strong bones.
7. Lemon treats constipation.
8. Lemon improves the quality of the skin.
9. Lemon detoxifies the liver.
10. Lemon reduces stress.

**RED FRUITS**
1. They are rich in fiber and vitamins.
2. They contain a lot of antioxidants. 
3. They are low in calories with a low glycemic index.
4. They fight the aging of the body.
5. They promote good intestinal transit.
6. They protect against cardiovascular disease.
7. They help reduce physical fatigue.

**SALMON**
1. Salmon reduces the risk of cardiovascular disease.
2. Salmon prevents cancer. 
3. Salmon fights against cellular aging.
4. Salmon protects the health of the eyes.
5. Salmon helps keep bones strong.
6. Salmon strengthens the immune system.
7. Salmon protects against inflammatory diseases.
8. Salmon stimulates memory.
9. Salmon keeps the skin smooth and youthful.
10. Salmon is a great source of energy.

**ONION**
1. Onion reduces high blood pressure.
2. Onion helps fight cancer. 
3. The onion purifies the blood and kills bacteria.
4. Onion alleviates premenstrual symptoms.
5. The onion fights against thyroid disorders.
6. The onion promotes digestion and transit.
7. Onion regulates the blood sugar level.
8. The onion participates in the healthy development of the fetus.
9. Onion strengthens bones and prevents anemia.
10. Onion prevents premature aging.

**CARROT**
1. The carrot reduces the risk of cancer.
2. Carrot lowers bad cholesterol. 
3. The carrot protects the heart.
4. Carrot prevents Alzheimer’s disease.
5. The carrot reduces anemia.
6. The carrot keeps the skin smooth and youthful.
7. Carrot strengthens bones and eyesight. 
8. Carrot relieves respiratory problems.
9. The carrot facilitates digestion and transit.
10. Carrot improves mood.

**OLIVE OIL**
1. Olive oil protects against cardiovascular disease.
2. Olive oil prevents cancer.
3. Olive oil lowers the risk of diabetes.
4. Olive oil slows down the aging of cells. 
5. Olive oil lowers and regulates cholesterol.
6. Olive oil aids digestion and transit.
7. Olive oil hydrates the skin and smoothes the hair.
8. Olive oil strengthens the immune system.
9. Olive oil prevents coughing attacks.
10. Olive oil promotes weight loss.

**GINGER**
1. Ginger prevents cardiovascular disease.
2. Ginger controls blood sugar levels. 
3. Ginger improves digestion.
4. Ginger stimulates sexual appetite.
5. Ginger promotes weight loss.
6. Ginger relieves pain and migraines.
7. Ginger helps fight cancer. 
8. Ginger relieves nausea and vomiting.
9. Ginger stimulates and strengthens the body.
10. Ginger fights fatigue

src - https://naturesbenifits.com/anti-cancer-foods/

origin - https://www.pipiscrew.com/2020/10/the-top-13-anti-cancer-foods/ the-top-13-anti-cancer-foods